So enough of the talking,
let's now get started working with Angular
and for that, I'll use a tool named the Angular CLI, the Angular command line interface that is which
is simply a tool that makes the creation and management of Angular projects really simple because Angular
as I mentioned is the framework but also the idea of using TypeScript and using a certain structure
and because Angular apps therefore need to be compiled to Javascript and need to have all the code bundled
together and optimized, because of that, there is a tool like this CLI that allows us to set up this
project and the build process for this project which will do all the compilation and optimization for
us so that we don't have to configure anything there. Because of that, a tool like the CLI exists because
you will see it's really easy to use and we get a project where we can write the logic and the styling
and the layout for our application in a very convenient and easy way
and we still get all the behind the scenes magic of getting that one single page application with that
one bundled code.
Now you can get that CLI here by visiting
cli.angular.io
and here you find all the installation steps and it's really just these steps which you need to run
to have an up and running project and it's only this step what you need to install the CLI.
So let's do that together now.
You can install it by typing npm install -g @angular/cli
and I added sudo here because I on a Mac and it might be the same for you if you are using the Mac or
Linux need to add this to have the right permissions to execute this command.
This depends a bit on your config but chances are high you need to add this on Mac and Linux to succeed,
on Windows you will not need that, you can just hit enter and you might be prompted to enter your password
then.
Now once you entered the password, this downloads Angular and installs it. Now to run this command,
you need one other tool and that is NodeJS and you can get that from nodejs.org. Now
NodeJS is a server-side Javascript runtime you could say, it allows you to write server-side code
with Javascript and that's not what we'll do in this course. But NodeJS when you install it, also gives
you its Node Package Manager and that is a tool which you historically used for managing dependencies
of NodeJS projects
but in modern Javascript development and that encloses things like developing mobile apps with Javascript
or of course web apps with Javascript with frameworks like Angular, you use this npm tool, this package
manager to install the dependencies for such projects as well and the Angular CLI is simply a tool
you can install through npm.
So go to nodejs.org and download the latest version of NodeJS, run through the installer
this will give you
and once you finished the installer which is a straight forward installer without any special things
to consider,
once you've finished the installation process, you will be able to run this npm command because that uses
this npm tool which is installed together with NodeJS.
Now with the installation finished, we can use the Angular CLI to create a new Angular project
and for that, you simply navigate into a folder where you want to create that project with the help of
the cd command in your terminal,
I already did this and then you run ng new and I'll name it ng-refresher but you can name
it however you want of course, this will be my project name, ng new is required and this uses this
CLI tool we installed.
Now you are asked if you want to add Angular routing and I will add N for no here and how you would
like to write your styles and I will stick to the default which is CSS. And now this will generate
a new folder in the path you navigated to in your terminal and it will set up a basic Angular project
there
and whilst this is happening, we can now take care about using a fitting editor.